In the last lesson, we talked about global
scope.
And in this lesson, we're going to talk
about local scope.
So let's start a program, we'll call it
local.py.
And what we'll do first is define,
a function we've seen many times here,
square.
But we're gonna define it differently.
Here's how we would define it normally, as
what I call a one liner.
Return number times number, but just to
show you the difference between
global and local scope, I'm going to
introduce a new variable squared which
will receive the value of taking the
parameter, and multiplying it by itself,
and then we will return squared as the,
return value of the function.
And then just to demonstrate that it works
correctly, we'll print the square of 2.
So let's run that real quick,
and we get 4 just like we expected.
When we introduce, the variable squared.
Squared, becomes a local, variable because
it is defined within the body.
Of the, function square.
So we say, using our computer science
terminology
that squared, is local to the square
function.
And we can demonstrate that, by trying to
print the value of squared.
So let's save, the program.
And then running.
You see we get an error.
Squared is not defined.
Let's come back and look.
Squared is not defined, because we're in
the global area
of the program, and we're trying to access
squared, yet.
Squared as been defined, only within the
context of the
function squared, we had no problem
accessing the value of squared
within the function definition, but we can
not access it in the main
program, because squared is local to the
function square.
That, is the difference between global,
and local scope.
In a global scope, your variable is
accessible from anywhere in
the program, from the main area, and from
any other function.
When a variable, is defined locally.
As squared was, it's only accessible
within the body, within the
context, of the function that it was
defined yet, this also
applies to classes which we will look at
later in the
course, but for now we will limit the
discussion to functions.
So, a global variable is accessible
anywhere
in a program and a local variable.
Is accessible only within the context, in
which it was, defined or declared.
So with that we're ready to move on to the
third and last topic of this
chapter, and we're going to talk about
one,
other possible scope and that's called
nested scope.